#

Follow these steps to get our application deployed onto the internet.

---

#### Prerequisites

This guide requires you to have the following programs installed/services setup:

- Node.js LTS
- Maven
- Java
- Web server
- Docker Desktop & Docker Hub account

These are required in order to package and publish the code.

---

#### Front End

1. Navigate to our Git [Repository](https://gitlab.fdmci.hva.nl/se-ewa/2023-2024-1/happy-2/-/tree/main), and download (not clone) our source code. This will be in `.zip`  format.
2. Unzip the download library.
3. Open a Terminal, and navigate to your unzipped source code.
4. When in the root folder, and you see the backend, frontend and other separate files, enter the Frontend directory.
5. When in the Frontend directory, run the following commands in order:

```bash
npm install && npm run build
```

7. The second command will generate a `dist` folder, found in the Frontend directory. 
8. Copy the contents of the `dist` folder into the web server.
9. If configured correctly, the server will automatically pickup the `index.html` file, and the Frontend is live!

---

#### Back End - Linux

1. Navigate to our Git [Repository](https://gitlab.fdmci.hva.nl/se-ewa/2023-2024-1/happy-2/-/tree/main), and download (not clone) our source code. This will be in `.zip`  format.
2. Unzip the download library.
3. Open a Terminal, and navigate to your unzipped source code.
4. When in the root folder, and you see the backend, frontend and other separate files, enter the Backend directory.
5. When in the Backend directory, run the following command:

```bash
mvn package -B
```

6. The command will generate a `target` folder, found in the Backend directory. When you open this folder, you'll find the `rest-1.jar` executable.
7. Place this `.jar` file onto a computer capable of executing code.
8. When you have placed this `.jar` file somewhere locatable, run the following command:

```bash
java -jar path/to/your/jar/rest-1.jar
```

10. This will start the application, and the Backend is live!
11. For advanced Linux users, it is advised to daemonize the service, to enable restarting and running in the background.

---

#### Back End - Docker

1. Download and unzip the source code like in the previous steps.
2. Open a Terminal inside the source code.
3. Create a `Dockerfile` (no file extension) inside the root directory of the Backend.
4. Inside the root directory, execute the following command:

```bash
mvn package -B
```

1. Paste the following file contents inside the `Dockerfile`:

```Dockerfile
FROM eclipse-temurin:17-jdk-alpine
COPY target/*.jar rest-1.jar
ENTRYPOINT ["java","-jar","rest-1.jar"]
```

6. Inside the root directory, execute the following command: `docker build --tag YOUR-HUB-USERNAME/YOUR-APPLICATION-NAME`
7. To publish the created image, execute the following command: `docker push --tag YOUR-HUB-USERNAME/YOUR-APPLICATION-NAME`
8. This created an image, accessible by other Docker hosting providers. They will supply you with the option to pull your newly created image, and deploy from there.
